In this lecture, we are going to configure automatic let's encrypt SSL certificate renewal.
It's an important point to remember that all let's encrypt commands are executed with route privileges.
I've already covered some of these commands.
But let me briefly recap.
Do you view all the installed certificates, sudo cert bot certificates to renew all certificates?
And it's important to remember all certificates sudo cert renew double hyphen force and renewal to test
renewal of certificates sudo cert but renew double hyphen dry eye and run.
When you install a certificate or renew a certificate, you must reload.
Ingenix Sudo surfboat certificates will display all certificates as well as the expiry date sudo cert
but renew double hyphen, dry ifx and run.
I'm not going to use the force renewal at this stage.
I'm just testing the renewal.
Congratulations, all renewals succeeded.
There are two additional commands at the stage to switch from the non-routine user, which we are currently
using to the root user, the command is issued hyphen.
You will need to type the password of your user.
Once you've completed working as a user, you simply type exit and you will switch back to your non-routine
user.
We are going to create a route cron jobs and route best scripts.
It makes it much easier to perform these tasks as the route user.
I again want to emphasize that when we run the command to renew our certificates, all the certificates
installed on the server will be renewed.
We are going to create two best scripts as the user, one to renew the certificates and one to reload
Engine X.
The first best script will renew our certificates surfboat renew force renewal.
The second best script reloads Engine X..
We are also going to create two current jobs.
The first cron job will renew our certificates.
The second cron job will reload engine Genex.
We will run the second current job an hour after the first crunch up to the first current job.
We will run at three thirty a.m. on the 14th day of every month.
The second cron job.
We will run at four thirty a.m. on the 14th day of every month.
The path to our shell slash burn slash its edge the command slash route, slash the script name.
We want to redirect the output of this current job to slash dev slash.
Now issue hyphen will allow us to switch to the route user.
If you look at the prompt, it is now a hash sign, not a dollar sign that indicates we are now working
as the root user.
I talked to Command P WD, which is print working directory.
We are currently in the slash root directory.
We are now going to use NENO and create a file called Ali'i Underscore Renew Dot S.H. the contents of
L e renew dot S.H. Firstly our Shabangu line, then the command.
We would like to execute search but we knew double Halfan force renewal.
You can exit saving your changes.
The second script we would like to create neno engy underscore reload dot S.H..
The contents are Shabangu line underneath the command.
We would like to execute system ctl reload Ingenix.
We are executing these commands as the route user we do not need to use can exit saving your changes.
We need to give both of these files executable permissions mod plus X followed by the name of the file.
If we look at the permissions, read, write, execute, read, execute, read, execute, I'm going
to run the l e renew script period.
Forward slash Alerian you dot S.H..
Our certificate has been renewed successfully.
I'm going to run the second script period forward, slash engy, reload, dot S.H. so our scripts execute
without any errors.
I'm going to type the clear command.
Now we need to create the current job.
Crosstab hyphen l will list the jobs for the user.
We don't have any to create a current job for our producer Crosstab Ifni.
It's asking us to select an editor.
We will select number to NENO.
You can scroll down to underneath all the comments.
So our first cron job will renew our certificate's minutes, 30 hours every day of the month, 14 months.
We don't specify a day of the week.
We don't specify.
So on the 14th day of every month at three thirty am the command slash root slash L.E. Underscore Dot
S.H. will run.
The output will be redirected to slash dev slash now, which simply means we will not receive notification
that this particular job has run our second Chron minutes.
Thirty hours for the day of the month 14.
We don't specify a month and we don't specify the day of the week.
So for thirty a.m. on the 14th day of every month, the script engy underscore reload will run.
That's all there is to configuring a current job.
You can Xanana saving your changes crosstab ifn l.
There are two current jobs for the route user on the 14th day of every month at three thirty am, we
will force the renewal of all of the certificates installed on the server and our later Ingenix will
reload to enable the new certificates to switch back to the non-routine user.
You top exit.
You can immediately see the change in the prompt.
I recommend you set an alarm for the day after the current job has run.
Check if the certificates were renewed successfully by using sudo cert but certificates.
In this lecture we configured cron jobs to renew our SSL certificates and then to reload Ingenix to
enable the renewal.